CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to fbthrift
We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Our Development Process
External pull requests are first applied to facebook's internal
branch, then synced with fbthrift github repository.

## Pull Requests
We actively welcome your pull requests.
1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")
In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla/>

## Issues
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

Facebook has a [bounty program](https://www.facebook.com/whitehat/) for the safe
disclosure of security bugs. In those cases, please go through the process
outlined on that page and do not file a public issue.

## Coding Style
* 80 character line length

## License
By contributing to fbthrift, you agree that your contributions will be licensed
under its Apache 2.0 license.

Commit message:

Link to Code of Conduct in `CONTRIBUTING.md`
We are about to add a `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` and it makes sense to surface it here.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to fbthrift
We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Code of Conduct
The code of conduct is described in [`CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Our Development Process
External pull requests are first applied to facebook's internal
branch, then synced with fbthrift github repository.

## Pull Requests
We actively welcome your pull requests.
1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")
In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla/>

## Issues
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

Facebook has a [bounty program](https://www.facebook.com/whitehat/) for the safe
disclosure of security bugs. In those cases, please go through the process
outlined on that page and do not file a public issue.

## Coding Style
* 80 character line length

## License
By contributing to fbthrift, you agree that your contributions will be licensed
under its Apache 2.0 license.
